[Music]
hello so this is our part two of chapter
three in the first part we spent some
time talking about the principle of
mediocrity and this idea that the earth
is here to sustain us it's specially
suited we are specially suited to it and
this has the idea of spaceship earth
this has named the idea of spaceship
earth and I finished by saying that
David had written today almost the
entire capacity of the Earth's life
support system for humans has been
provided not for us but by us using our
ability to create new knowledge and he
makes the point that whilst other
organisms appear to be specially suited
to the earth this is kind of a
misreading of the situation in at least
one respect they're suited to the
environment as it happens to be now but
the purpose of biological evolution is
to sustain genes over time not any
particular individual species it's
survival of the fittest genes in a very
real sense and so the earth is not going
to sustain organisms collections of
genes so let me continue reading chapter
three and he's speaking about other
organisms on the planet he says their
home environments do have the appearance
of having been designed as life support
systems for them I'll be at only in a
desperately limited sense that I have
described but the biosphere no more
provides humans with a life support
system then it provides us with radio
telescopes so the biosphere is incapable
of supporting human life from the outset
it was only human knowledge that made
the planet even marginally habitable by
humans and the enormous Lee increased
capacity of our life-support system
since then in terms both of numbers and
of security and quality of life has been
entirely due to the creation of human
knowledge we will see this was me
speaking now
is not a quote we will see that as we
proceed through the book David speaks
returns to this thing and speaks about
these wonderful examples such as
Malthusian named after Thomas Malthus
these Malthusian pessimistic prophecies
this idea that the carrying capacity of
the planet is finite for humans carrying
capacity worked quite well if you're
considering any other isolated organism
for those isolated organisms in the
environment are not creating knowledge
as a such a crucial point to grapple
with it's something that people who are
concerned about the environment don't
consider in their calculations and it's
very difficult to consider these things
in calculations because the growth of
knowledge is inherently unpredictable so
when Thomas Malthus as we will see in
later chapters tries to predict how long
people can survive on this planet given
that the amount of land where we can
grow food is finite he doesn't realize
that things can be done and things are
coming post Thomas Malthus who was
around in the 1700s in particular in the
1900s technology was found namely
artificial fertilizers via this thing
called the harbor process where you take
nitrogen gas and you take hydrogen gas
and you can make ammonia out of it and
the ammonia can then be used to create
artificial fertilizers put into the soil
which remarkably I've heard recently
some people regard as a terrible evil
because some of the fertilizer might go
into rivers and cause algae to bloom and
so algae bloom is a terrible evil so we
should stop using artificial fertilizers
if we did that a vast number of people
on this planet would die of starvation
people now are not starving in the
numbers that they used to because of
artificial fertilizers because we now
have the knowledge
of how to create more food with the same
amount of land than we ever have before
there's something different about us we
are not subject to the same sort of
whimsical changes in the environment
that other organisms are other organisms
if the environment changes they may go
extinct now if the environment changes
too much and too quickly for us we will
go extinct that's why we have to create
knowledge as fast as we possibly can
having created it we should use it to
create technology which helps to sustain
us to provide us with a spaceship earth
that's the only thing that provides the
spaceship earth is our building of it
our engineering of the planet in order
that it's more friendly for us so let me
continue reading on the same theme David
writes the moral component of the
spaceship earth metaphor is therefore
somewhat paradoxical it casts humans as
ungrateful for the gifts which in
reality they never received and it casts
all other species in morally positive
roles in the spaceships life-support
system with humans as the only negative
actors we get this sense in our culture
that humans are forever damaging the
planet that we are the cause of
extinctions I don't know how long it's
been since there's been a natural
extinction according to the prevailing
conception of what's going on in ecology
we know that 99.999% of species that
have ever existed have gone extinct but
over the last 50 years we hear about
extinctions all the time but
simultaneously in all cases this is a
challenge I throw out there we've never
heard of a species that's gone extinct
naturally why is that we know that they
do but they apparently don't anymore
ever since humans have arrived on the
same were the only things that cause
extinctions more or less so we are a on
few uniquely evil species and yet coming
this comes from the spaceship earth idea
and that the surrounding philosophy yet
the fact is that we're doing what we can
to not suffer the same fate as every
other species that's ever gone extinct
and the only thing that we can do is to
try and mold the environment around us
using our knowledge and technology I'll
continue reading but humans are part of
the biosphere and the supposedly immoral
behavior is identical to what all other
species do when times are good except
that humans alone try to mitigate the
effect of that response on their
descendants and other other species the
principle of mediocrity is paradoxical
too since it singles out
anthropocentrism for special opprobrium
among all forms of parochial
misconception it is itself
anthropocentric also it claims that all
value judgments are answer eccentric yet
itself is often expressed in value-laden
terminology such as arrogance just scum
and the very word mediocrity with
respect to whose values of those
disparagement stew be understood why is
arrogance even relevant as a criticism
also even if holding an arrogant opinion
is morally wrong morality is supposed to
refer only to the internal organization
of the chemical scum so how can it tell
us anything about how the word world
beyond the scum is organized as a
principle of mediocrity purports to this
was very David Deutsch by the way this
idea that the principle of mediocrity
singles out anthropocentrism and that
itself is an sirup eccentric so taking
one misconception and explaining how
another misconception comports to it
I'll continue he's speaking about people
in the past and he says that in a sense
their whole problem was that they were
not arrogant enough they assumed these
primitive people far too easily that the
world was fundamentally incomprehensible
to them the misconception that there was
once an a problematic era for humans is
present in ancient myths of a past
Golden Age
and of the Garden of Eden the
theological notions of grace unearned
benefit from God and Providence which is
God regard as the provider of human
needs are also related to this in order
to connect the supposed unproblematic
past with their own less than pleasant
experiences the authors of such myths
had to include some past transitions
such as a fall from grace
when Providence reduced its level of
support in the spaceship earth metaphor
the fall from grace is usually deemed to
be imminent quand yes so this idea of an
unproblematic past um it has a lot of
modern variants beyond what David is
speaking about now but all sit under the
same umbrella there's a lot of health
fads like this if anyone's ever heard of
the Paleo diet this idea that we should
eat like people of the Paleolithic era
and so just eat grains and meats I think
the theory there is that everyone on the
entire planet no matter where they
happen to be located were eating roughly
the same things anyway it's the idea
that unrefined food of some sort or
other is better for you than anything
that is being processed in any way
whatsoever so it's nutrition in the form
of the past was definitely better
so it's nutrition in the form of grace
and Providence I suppose now there might
very well be a case to be made that
certain kinds of unrefined food are
going to abettin to certain kinds of
food but that's a vacuous statement
basically you take any two foods one's
going to be superior sometimes it will
be the refined food if you take a carrot
firstly the orange carrots are
genetically engineered will they've been
selectively bred but two as far as I
know if you eat the raw carrot then
that's not going to provide you as with
as much nutrition as having cooked to
the carrot and having cooked the
characters are rather unnatural what
thing to do I'm not sure if Paleolithic
people cooked carrots I don't know
whatever case the cooking is unnatural
using a microwave in order to process
your food is unnatural and yet we know
that if you break down the cell walls of
plants through mechanisms other than
simply chewing them they only by
applying heat which partially digests
the food outside of your stomach then
you're able to extract more of the
nutrients all this is to say is that
technology and knowledge helps let's
continue the principle of mediocrity
contains a similar misconception
consider the following argument
which is due to the evolutionary
biologist Richard Dawkins human
attributes like those of other organisms
evolved under natural selection in an
ancestral environment that is why our
senses are adapted to detecting things
like the colours and smell of fruit or
the sound of a predator being able to
detect such things gave our ancestors a
better chance of surviving to have
offspring but for the same reason
Dawkins points out evolution did not
waste our resources on detecting
phenomena that were never relevant to
our survival we cannot for instance
distinguish between the colours of most
stars with the naked eye and night
vision is too poor and monochromatic
because not enough of our ancestors died
of that limitation to create
evolutionary pressure for anything
better
so Dawkins argues and here he is
invoking the principle of mediocrity but
there is no reason to expect our brains
to be any different from our eyes in
this regard they evolved to cope with
the narrow class phenomenon that
commonly occur in the biosphere and
approximately human scales of size time
and energy and so on so phenomena in the
universe happen to be far above or below
most phenomena in the universe happen to
be far above or below those scales some
would kill us instantly others could
never affect anything in the lives of
humans so just as our senses cannot
detect neutrinos or quasars almost other
significant phenomena in the cosmic
scheme of things there's no reason to
expect our brains to understand them to
the extent that they already do
understand them we have been lucky but a
run of luck cannot be expect to continue
for long hence Dawkins agrees with our
earlier evolutionary biologist John
Haldane who expected that the universe
is not only queerer than we can suppose
but queerer than we can suppose
this is a powerful argument it's
completely wrong but it is very
seductive I think Dawkins uses the
terminology middle world we don't
understand things that are really really
small like the quantum and so what's
going on there kind of challenges our
intuitions in such a way that it's
impossible to understand quantum
mechanics let alone string theory or
anything else and we don't understand
things moving too fast
so our intuitions don't really wrap
around relativity theory anything
approaching the speed of light starts to
do things that make it difficult for us
to understand and ok I'm going to pause
now and change venue how I got to last
time was discussing Richard Dawkins
middle world I don't think that David
uses those terms but I've heard them or
read them written by Richard himself
somewhere or other this idea that our
brain is an evolved structure of course
it is and why should we think it any
different to any other feature of a
biological organism namely evolved in
such a way that it's suited to the
environment in which it finds itself
this is what evolution tends to do it
tends to shape organisms to their
environment that's why they seem so
uniquely suited to those environments so
when it comes to the human brain
shouldn't we assume that exactly the
same concept should obtain that the
brain is suited to the particular sizes
and velocities and conditions in which
it is generally surrounded by but with
which it is generally surrounded by in
other words the quantum world seems
strange because we evolved in an
environment which is much larger than
the quantum so we don't notice quantum
effects indeed not only do we not notice
them we're in some sense incapable of
comprehending what's going on at the
subatomic scale because it's so
unfamiliar
similarly trying to understand
logical time or cosmological time for
that manner is very very difficult for
us perhaps even intractably so we can't
have a good understanding of what it's
like to travel near the speed of light
because we never travel near the speed
of light now all of this is simply to
say that there are limits to the human
mind
we can't picture certain things we can't
even understand certain things perhaps
people like Neil deGrasse Tyson or some
others have read Richard Dawkins and
taken the further leap to presume that
there is no reason to suspect I think
Sam Harris might have offered something
similar there is no reason to suspect
that the brains that we have have the
capacity to understand much more than
what we know right now this is the John
Horgan the end of science idea in a
sense John holding just thinks that um
we actually are discovering everything
that is possible to discover and we're
going to reach a limit in that sense
we're going to find the final theory and
that's it progress will stop at that
point the other version of that which
often works in concert is if there is
something deeper than some of our most
fundamental theories you know perhaps
string theory lives beneath or is more
fundamental than general relativity and
quantum theory that we can just barely
understand that only the greatest
theoretical physicists and
mathematicians are able to struggle
mightily to try and figure out what's
going on with string theory that they're
failing could be an indication that we
have simply reached the end of human
brain computing power whatever the laws
of physics ultimately turn out to be so
this argument runs they might be simply
too complicated for us to ever possibly
understand so this is the idea of middle
world we occupy a middle-sized world
it's not we don't occupy the largest
scales like super clusters of galaxies
and we don't occupy the smallest scales
like electrons and photons do
so therefore we're trapped with our
brains able to comprehend human sized
things human timescales
David is the first person here and in
this chapter to really challenge that in
a deep way I think he completely cuts
the legs out from underneath that entire
line of argument persuasive as or as
compelling as that argument is it makes
sense it makes common sense why should
we have any capacity to understand what
it's like to travel into the speed of
light the very theories that speak about
traveling near the speed of light also
say how difficult it is need lots of
energy and so forth we accelerate masses
like ours to anywhere near the speed of
light so it's almost as if it's
prohibited we can't picture what's going
on we we have we struggle to bring our
common sense into line with what we know
from theories of physics the faster you
go the more that time slows down of
course in stating the problem that way
we also reveal what's wrong with it
after all people do understand the
special theory of relativity and the
general theory of relativity and quantum
theory counter intuitive as they are we
understand them and we conclude from
this that our intuitions on these
matters are false there's a better way
to understand reality than simply
guessing at it with your common sense
with the intuitions that you grew up
with as a child you can overcome those
now why should we expect that if there
are deeper theories still and there must
be deeper theories than either
relativity or quantum theory which
govern they're in conflict and so we
know at least one of them is false
probably both that whatever the deepest
theory is why should we expect that to
be any less counterintuitive it will be
counterintuitive I would guess but that
is not to say it will be
incomprehensible in fact it must be
comprehensible because the universe is
comprehensible and we can comprehend it
now we're going to hear David's argument
for exactly that and it has to do with
one of his many areas of expertise
namely his understanding of computation
of universal computation and we're going
to apply that to human beings yeah last
few sentences I read with this most
phenomena in the universe happened far
above or below those scales human scales
some would kill us instantly others
could never affect anything in the lives
of early humans so just as their senses
cannot detect neutrinos or quasars or
most other significant phenomena in the
cosmic scheme of things there's no
reason to expect our brains to
understand them to the extent that they
already do understand them we have been
lucky but a run of luck cannot be
expected to continue for long so like I
say this is a very powerful persuasive
argument it's a good argument by Dawkins
but it's false so let's continue David
writes that is a startling and
paradoxical consequence of the principle
of mediocrity it says that all human
abilities including the distinctive ones
such as the ability to create new
explanations are necessarily parochial
that implies in particular that progress
in science cannot exceed a certain limit
defined by the biology of the human
brain and we must expect to reach that
limit sooner rather than later beyond it
the world stops making sense or seems to
the answer to the question that I asked
at the end of chapter 2 with the
Scientific Revolution and the broader
enlightenment could be a beginning of
infinity would then be a resounding no
science frolics its successes and
aspirations would turn out to be
inherently parochial and ironically
anthropocentric in other words what we
discover is limited by our biological
evolution in particular by our brains
and so we can understand things at
roughly human size once things start to
get too big or too small
they will be incomprehensible to us or
perhaps of to longer duration or to
shorter duration there could be any
number of ways in which we are trapped
inside of a bubble
find by the capacity of the human brain
to compute what is going on out there
even if those things that are going on
out there are governed by laws of
physics the laws of physics might be
incomprehensible so just to preface
what's about to happen this line of
argument arises out of a mathematical
proof
it's the mathematical proof that Dave
and himself did in 1986 on the
universality of quantum computation the
proof that quantum computers were
possible it says that whatever the
physical laws are they must be
computable that's it if they're
computable that means a universal
computer will be able to simulate those
physical laws now people do object to
this but at the moment it's a
mathematical proof until someone can
provide a refutation of the proof it
stands it's like Pythagoras's theorem it
is like that in terms of it's in terms
of how fundamental it is so let's
continue and David speaks about how
Richard Dawkins says that within this
sort of human sized world that is
comprehensible to us the world can turn
out to seem unproblematic but outside
once things get too big too small
whatever then there will be insoluble
problems on that view and David writes
that Dawkins would prefer it to be
otherwise as he wrote I believe that an
ordinary universe one indifferent to
human preoccupations in which everything
has an explanation even if we still have
a long way to go before we find it it's
a more beautiful or wonderful place than
a universe that is tricked out with
capricious ad hoc magic now of course
and I think David says this later if
there can be no explanation
about some phenomena some physical
phenomena are out there in the universe
if there can be an extranet no
explanation then that in fact is a
universe tricked out with capricious
ad-hoc magic so Dawkins doesn't want it
to be the case that there are these
insoluble problems but he's arguing
against of course supernatural beings
he doesn't want supernatural beings to
exist like he thinks that that's a
pessimistic view of the world I would
agree that if you've got all-powerful
beings you've got gods or whatever then
that would mean that there's magic in
the universe somewhere other and so
phenomena like miracles could exist
because the gods could be doing it and
you could never possibly understand it
now he says that that's objectionable
but it's it's more objectionable so let
me continue let me continue an orderly
explicable universe is indeed more
beautiful see chapter 14 though the
assumption that to be orderly it has to
be indifferent to human preoccupations
is a misconception associated with the
principle of mediocrity any assumption
that the world is inexplicable can lead
only to extremely bad explanations for
an inexplicable world is
indistinguishable from one tricked out
with capricious ad-hoc magic by
definition no hypothesis about the world
outside the bubble of explica bility can
be a better explanation than that Zeus
rules there or practically any myth or
fantasy one likes skipping a little at
root the principle of mediocrity and the
spaceship earth metaphor overlap in a
claim about reach they both claim that
the reach of the distinctively human way
of being that is to say the way of
problem-solving knowledge creating and
adapting the world around us is bounded
and they argue that its bounds cannot be
very far beyond what it has already
reached trying to go beyond that range
must lead to failure and catastrophe
respectively I'm going to skip a a fair
bit once again
you've never read the book you should
read it if you haven't bought the book
you should buy it because I'm only
giving you a taste of what is in any of
these chapters this hunts a particularly
long chapter but I'll continue a little
further on now and he writes since the
Enlightenment technological progress has
depended specifically on the creation of
explanatory knowledge people are dreamed
for millennia of flying to the moon but
it was only with the advent of newton's
theories about the behavior of invisible
entities such as forces and momentum now
they began to understand what was needed
in order to go there this increasingly
intimate connection between explaining
the world and controlling it there's no
accident but it's part of a part of the
deep structure of the world consider the
set of all conceivable transformations
of physical objects some of these like
faster-than-light communication never
happened because they are forbidden by
laws of nature some like the formation
of stars out of primordial hydrogen
happens spontaneously and some such as
converting air and water into trees or
converting raw materials into a radio
telescope are possible but happen only
when the requisite knowledge is present
for instance embodied in genes or brains
now that that that's an important
dichotomy the two species of knowledge
if you like that exist and it's a
difficult one to grapple with the first
time that it is encountered but it's
true this idea that there are two kinds
of knowledge that exist on planet earth
one is the knowledge of how to build
organisms and that is contained within
the genes of any organism it is
knowledge that is produced by rule
selection of mutations that's what
natural selection is about the other
kind of knowledge is explanatory
knowledge which superficially resembles
that the production of which
superficially resembles how knowledge in
genes is created but there are crucial
differences explanatory knowledge is
generated via creative conjecture and
refutation now in both cases the genetic
type knowledge and the explanatory type
knowledge we can state relatively
cleanly what mechanisms lead to the
production of both but that doesn't mean
that we know everything about them
when I say that for example conjecture
and refutation leads the production of
knowledge or another way of putting that
in more straightforward languages
creativity and criticism we don't
actually know too much about creativity
in the same way when we talk about
random selection and mutation of genes
that creates biological knowledge in
other words the knowledge of how an
organism can survive in a given
environment that too is not perfectly
well understood for nothing's perfectly
well understood but we will come to see
that we know that neither of these two
great theories the theory of biological
evolution and the theory of epistemology
aren't well understood because we cannot
program the computer in order to
simulate either we cannot program a
computer in order to simulate the
capacity of creating explanatory
knowledge in order to do so we'd have to
actually create an AGI an artificial
general intelligence we can't do that
ergo we do not know about how knowledge
explanatory knowledge is actually
produced it's not only explanatory
knowledge it's any kind of declarative
knowledge I suppose implicit knowledge
explicit knowledge knowledge that people
have the other kind of knowledge the
genetic knowledge we similarly cannot
program computers in order to simulate
evolution by natural selection we can do
what are called evolutionary algorithms
and we'll get to this in subsequent
chapters but there is nothing like
nothing like biological evolution in
particular I think one of the main
problems dear is that in order to
simulate biological evolution you would
need to simulate the environment in
which the biological organism is
evolving and simulating environments has
all the problems of trying to simulate
with high fidelity the real world so you
don't only need to seem like the laws of
physics but you need to simulate
emergent laws as well and that can get
exceedingly difficult then the world is
a complicated place so there are many
many complications we can't simulate
either is the main bullet point there
let's continue so
last sentence I read was some of those
like faster-than-light communication
never happened because our forbidden by
the laws of nature
some like formation of stars out of
primary audio hydrogen happens
spontaneously in some such as converting
air and water into trees or converting
raw materials into our telescope a
possible but happen only when the
records of knowledge is present for
instance embodying genes or brains but
those are the only possibilities that is
to say every putative physical
transformation to be performed in a
given time with given resources or under
any other conditions as either one
impossible because it is forbidden by
the laws of nature or to achievable
given the right knowledge this is the
dichotomy that many many people who've
read the book are really taken aback by
taken aback in a good way I certainly
was it's a phenomenal claim it's
something that Sam Harris spent a lot of
time on in at least one of the waking up
podcasts where he interviewed David
because he was taken aback by it
and many people have realized that this
is a a I don't know that it originated
with David but he's given it the the
best defense I think other people have
hinted it this idea a few times but no
one has taken it quite so seriously and
taken it forward so the momentous thing
here is that you've only got two
possibilities either something is
impossible because the laws of nature
say it's impossible for some reason
example faster-than-light communication
or it's possible given the right
knowledge so
when in the beginning of infinity and
what I'm talking about the beginning of
infinity broadly and I make weird climbs
seemingly strange claims like the
transformation of the andromeda galaxy
this entire galaxy 2.2 million
light-years away made up of hundreds of
billions of stars to radically transform
that galaxy that could be done by human
beings we could turn it into a galactic
sized city maybe at some point it will
be some millions of years from now I
could be surprised it would be thousands
of years that might seem science fiction
and for now it is however we cannot say
it's impossible because there's no law
of physics saying that turning or
converting the Andromeda galaxy into a
fully fledged galactic sized city is
impossible anything that's not forbidden
by the laws of physics is possible given
the right knowledge to remarkable so
things are impossible because of the
laws of nature or they're achievable
given the right knowledge and David
writes that momentous dichotomy exists
because if there were transformations
that technology could never achieve
regardless of what knowledge was brought
to bear then this fact would itself be a
testable regularity in nature but all
regularities in nature have explanations
so the explanation of that regularity
would itself be a law of nature or a
consequence of one and so again
everything that is not forbidden by the
laws of nature is achievable given the
right knowledge this fundamental
connection between explanatory knowledge
and technology is why the Haldane
Dawkins queerer than we can suppose
argument is mistaken and while the reach
of human adaptations does have a
different character from that of all
other adaptations in the biosphere the
ability to create and use explanatory
knowledge gives people a power to
transform nature which is ultimately not
limited by parochial factors as all
other adaptations are but only by
universal laws this is the cosmic
significance of explanatory knowledge
and hence of people whom I shall hence
forward define as entities that can
create explain
taury knowledge Wow so that is an
extremely dense paragraph there is a lot
of stuff there happening so this idea
that the universe is queerer than we can
suppose but there are things out there
that are inexplicable in other words
there are things that we cannot do this
is not possible it's not possible
because of the simple dichotomy that
David gave to us either things are
impossible because they're forbidden by
the laws of nature or they're achievable
given the right knowledge there cannot
be a third option there cannot be this
thing that's out there that cannot
possibly be done despite the fact it's
permitted and we do have the knowledge
moreover I would emphasize again that we
have a proof that whatever is physically
possible is computable and our computers
can compute anything that's physically
possible in other words anything that
happens anything that happens in
physical reality anything that happens
in physical reality has being governed
by laws of physics so if there's
something out there
that you think is incomprehensible then
that thing that's incomprehensible is
governed by laws of physics but the laws
of physics are computable as proved by
David Paich if they're computable that
means we can write a code for a computer
to simulate those laws of physics now
this is where Martin Rees jumps in and
says but just because you can compute it
doesn't mean you can comprehend it and
this is a misunderstanding of what it
would take to compute something what it
takes to compute something is to write
an algorithm if you can write down an
algorithm that means that you've
understood something with sufficient
accuracy in order to capture it in a
list of instructions which can then be
coded in a computer language and put
into a computer computing something is
comprehending it for a person those two
things are synonyms they're not
different
for a person for a human obviously for a
computer if a computer is doing the
computation it's got comprehending
anything and the reason it's not
comprehending anything is for the
reasons that were just read out namely
that a computer is not a person
it's not a universal explainer it's not
creating knowledge there's a lot going
on here so again we will just say so
again I should emphasize that we have
here an explanation of what people are
oh it's a definition but I think it's a
bit deeper than that it's an explanation
of what people are there is this thing
called explanatory knowledge explanatory
knowledge tells us what's going on in
the world it's an account of what's
going on in the world there's only one
entity that we know of in the entire
universe that is able to create
explanatory knowledge and that one
entity in the universe are human beings
but presumably all intelligent aliens
that are out they know it has to be the
case that all intelligent aliens out
there will similarly be able to explain
their world if you can explain your
world then you are universal in the
capacity to do so for the reasons that
we just said either a thing can be
explained and be computed or it cannot
be and someone's just started mowing
their lawn outside so I'm gonna move for
a third time
okay so yet another experiment outside
once more there's a side of lovely Lake
again small waves coming in so hopefully
it's not too distracting I probably
won't read for much longer anyway okay
so we'll just at the point where david
provides the definition which i regard
as an explanation of what a person is a
person is an entity that can create
explanatory knowledge this is phenomenal
and far-reaching and it's changed my
view deeply on a whole bunch of issues
it resolves a bunch of problems I think
it currently in the present intellectual
zeitgeist of the West really does go a
long way to addressing a bunch of issues
associated with the pursuit of
artificial intelligence and artificial
general intelligence in particular the
general intelligence of course but it
separates out qualitatively speaking the
difference between artificial general
intelligence which is a kind of person
from artificial intelligence which I
compare simply to a toaster it's
something that operates by following a
set of instructions without any
creativity whatsoever I don't think
there are divisions between those two I
think it's a black-and-white categorical
difference
I don't think you can have a little bit
of capacity to create explanatory
knowledge
I think it's an all-or-nothing thing and
it seems like the wind has picked up
again the universe doesn't have it in
for us but